---
title: 28-11-24
description: Setup IDEs, start up AWS Dev Challenge stuff with courses.
duration: 2 mins
date: 2024-12-28
---
Starting at 5:18 am, I am starting the course for AWS game-dev challenge, super excited and racing.
Got 19 days, with the tracking whiteboard and all ready.
Will be writing the Dev-log here, Arc will be the place to watch videos, Zen browser for music and writing notes/ Dev-logs.

# Tasks -

- [ ] Go with the First section, Setup Rider.
- [ ] Look into the source control strategy to implement.
- [ ] Experiment with the normal transfer shader, is it possible to replicate in unreal??

### What all I will learn -

- how you can allow your players to create user accounts for your game with username, password.
- How do games allow you to sign up for a new user account in the game?
- Receive a six digit verification code in their email, allowing them to verify their account for the game.
- how to save player data in databases so they can see their achievements in the game, showing their progress, skill level, items or stats from previous matches, or how leaderboards are made showing the top scoring players who play the game across the planet.
- How you can run dedicated servers that players can connect to, in different regions so that we can allow players in all regions to play on low ping times.
- how to make competitive multiplayer games fair to all players. With an authoritative server optimized to manage server operations, reduce lag, and provide a consistent and performant experience for everyone, or how you can have a persistent world that all players connect to every time they play the game.

Hosting first will be on our local machine and then on AWS VMs.

We will make serverless functions in AWS Lambda, probably for accessing data.

We will create secure user pools where the users can create their accounts - email verification using AWS cognito.

Security using temporary user tokens granted via user pool login somwhat like pre-signed URLs type shit.

Make our own REST API to take HTTP requests from unreal C++ and trigger Lambda functions.

Use NoSQL for storing data in AWS DynamoDB, high performant database.

## DevLog -

Got my AWS account made.

Didi gave the credit card while on the verge of reaching basecamp for her trek lol.

have setup google authenticator for the auth purposes and i will give fine grained access to Suvojit and Harsh honestly. As the credit card is my sister's.

Starting with the videos now, sleeping for a while now - 9:44 am.
