---
title: 29-11-24
description: Make AWS Gamelift integration plugin from AWS SDK.
duration: 2 mins
date: 2024-12-29
---
Did our laundry early in the morning and then went to bed at 1pm, then woke up at around 9 pm, finally started at 9:45.

What we will be doing today -

- [ ] Experiment with the normal transfer shader, is it possible to replicate in unreal?? Note: It should be, using unreal particles, but that might get heavy.
- [X] Gamelift Plugin
- [ ] Get gamelift live
- [ ] Get Gamelift anywhere started atleast.

We will be making the Gamelift plugin for our basic multiplayer game. and then we will integrate Gamelift with UE5 project.
The project that i have, need to be opened in development editor mode if we want to open the unreal editor from VS.
And use only Ctrl+B after selecting the template solution not shift or else the whole engine will compile.

Now, I think that Harsh will get the multiplayer plugin sorted and I will be able to merge the two stuff together fairly easily ig.

I will be making the whole plugin myself, also document the process here.
# DevLog -

### GameLift Server SDK Integration Notes

**Overview**
The integration process allows C++ code from the GameLift server SDK to communicate with GameLift services for managing game sessions, player sessions, and other GameLift functionality.

#### Prerequisites

**Required Components:**
- Perl (scripting language for build scripts)
- NASM (Netwide Assembler) for low-level programming
- OpenSSL for encryption functionality

#### Key Binary Files Needed

**OpenSSL Binary Files:**
- Required for packaging UE projects with GameLift
- Used for cryptography functionality
- Must be built from OpenSSL installation

**AWS Server SDK Binary Files:**
- Generated when building the server SDK
- Required for the UE Server SDK plugin
- Enables GameLift functionality in the project

#### Integration Process

**Step 1: OpenSSL Setup**
1. Install prerequisites (Perl and NASM)
2. Download and build OpenSSL
3. Generate required binary files for project packaging

**Step 2: Server SDK Setup**
1. Download AWS Server SDK
2. Build SDK to generate binary files
3. Create SDK plugin for Unreal project

**Step 3: Project Integration**
1. Add Server SDK plugin to Unreal project
2. Configure project settings
3. Implement GameLift communication code

#### End Result
- Project will have UE Server SDK for GameLift integrated
- Can access C++ code for GameLift communications
- Enables full GameLift service functionality

## Process outline -

[AWS Documentation on this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/gamelift/latest/developerguide/integration-engines-setup-unreal.html)
[Read about OpenSSL](https://github.com/openssl/openssl#build-and-install)
[OpenSSL Build Instructions](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/blob/master/NOTES-WINDOWS.md)

So the first step we go through is intalling Strawberry Perl, which is abn environment for making Perl applications.
Next we will install NASM which is an assembler and disassembler.
We install the latest version and then add it to our path.

Next we clone OpenSSL git repo and open up a session of the Visual Studio developer terminal as adminstrator by running this from the command prompt:
```bash
"C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\VsDevCmd.bat" -arch=amd64
```
After this we enter the visual studio developer terminal, now we cd into the OpenSSl repo clone and run `perl Configure VC-WIN64A` and wait for it to finish then we simply run `nmake` and this builds the 2 binaries for us that we need, `libcrypto-3-x64.dll` and `libssl-3-x64.dll`

Next up we download the AWS GameLift server SDK ffrom AWS github, then extract, the documentation warns us to extract to `C:/` directly, because in downloads it might get too long and result in build issues due to the 260 character limit.

Next up we compile the server using the commands used in the video, some parts of the documentation adn are outdated and some are super-new, so there is a mis-match in the commands as well as the file-paths, follow the video.
Now, after building, we use some DLLs and put it in the plugin folder and then copy over the folder having the uplugin and put it in our project, in a new Plugins folder.
Then we recompile after updating the .uproject with the correct plugoin name, and the build.cs for the project, with the correct name of the plugin, follow the video (udemy) here, there is a lot to mess up.

Now we regenerate the VS files and then we build and the build succeeds and we are good to go, we switch to riderIDE and proceed. (The build needs to be done 2 times, once configured as development editor, and again as development server)

Next I went through the process of setting up an alarm in the AWS cloudwatch console for exceeding free tier limits, (i set the limit to be 3$).
Made a Simple Notification Service thread for this, subscribed up 2 emails but it keeps on un-subscribing my main email for some reason but nvm, thekumars TLD email is still active on the notification service.

Also it has been told that if u are charged falsely for a static IPv4 address, then u can raise a case in the support console and they generally help u.

Next up I made a new Admin User as it is not good practice to use the root account, so I went ahead and did that, then got my sign-on URL and now I can access everything using that user, this is good for when collaborating with Harsh and Suvojit as I will give them restricted access only.
Now I will be going in the fun stuff. 
**Section - 3 Complete, 4 begins**

So, I switched to rider and right away I had issues with not being able to access the Riderlink plugin.
It was not installing, so i just changed the settings to make the plugin code add to the project and then built the whole project in VS.
This way the plugin was sort of baked in and it worked now as the course had instructed that we should only install the plugin in our game and not in the engine as we are using a source build, it will most likely fail in that way.